We added validation and we see that a failing validation and hence a thrown error
as we're doing it here leads to a response that actually has null in the data it gives us back but
that has an errors key with an array of all the errors it gathered.
If you open the network tab by the way
and you re-execute
that, you also see that it sets a status code of 500.
Now that's nice
but sometimes you want to add more detailed information.
You can set your own status code though
but we could add more information to the errors
we return and to do that, you can go to your app.js file and there where you configure your graphql
API,
you can add another configuration option which is called format error and this is actually a method
which receives the error detected by graphql and allows you to return your own format.
Now if you just return error, you keep the default format which is exactly the format we see here
but you can change that of course.
You can check if in your error here, you don't have the original error field,
so if you don't have that hence the exclamation mark at the beginning. Original error will be set
by express graphql when it detects an error thrown in your code, either by you or some third party
package.
If you have a technical error, let's say a missing character in your query here or anything like that,
then it will not have that original error
and if we don't have that, then I'll just return the error that was generated by graphql but if I do
have my original error, well then I can extract useful information from it that I can add in other places
and that is what we can do in the resolver now. Let's say validation fails, on the error that gets created
here,
I could add a data field which is my array of errors which I populate here with my validation error
messages.
I could also add a code here which I set to 422 or I come up with my own coding system,
I don't have to use http status codes here. And now in app.js, I can retrieve all of that from the
original error, so I can get my data from error,
original error data
and that might be undefined for thrown errors that don't set it but that's ok.
I can retrieve my message directly from the error because that is already pulled out of the error
by graphql and in case that should be undefined somehow, I can set this to an error occured and I
can get my code from the original error again, there I named that code too
and I could set this to a default value of 500.
Now with all that pulled out, I can return my own error object here where I have a message just like the
original one but where I then also add my status field which contains my code and a data field which
contains my data
and you can name all these fields in exactly the way you want.
And now with that and all the files saved here,
if I hit enter again or play again,
now I see I get a different error output with the data I added and this can be very useful
and this is how you can handle errors in graphql.